Welcome to the Learn Linux
in 5 Days course.
On day one you'll learn what Linux is,
how it came to be and
some of its strengths and weaknesses.
You'll also learn a few different methods
to gaining access to an already installed
and running Linux system.
If you want to learn how to install
Linux on your own, don't worry,
you'll learn how to do that too.
Finally, on day one, we'll talk about the
various ways to connect to a Linux system
and the software you'll need to do so.
You'll start out day two by learning
about the Linux directory structure and
where various components of
the operating system reside.
Next, you'll get an introduction to
the Linux command line interface, and
learn some of the most essential and
often used commands.
Even the most experienced Linux users
need help from time to time, and
you'll learn how and
where to find that as well.
You'll also learn about the superuser
account, why it exists and
when you need to use it.
You'll wrap up day two by learning
some directory shortcuts and
how to navigate about the file system.
Day three will include lessons on file and
directory permissions.
You'll learn how to read permissions,
what they mean, and how to set them.
You'll also pick up some tips
on working with groups and
the permissions you
should use when doing so.
Next, you'll learn two commands
that will help you find any file or
directory on a Linux system.
You'll learn how to view the contents
of files and how to edit them.
We'll also cover command-line editors,
as well as editors that you can
use in a graphical environment.
You'll start out day four by learning
how to delete, copy, move, and
rename files and directories.
You'll tackle input and
output redirection before
learning how to compare the contents
of files and directories.
Next, I'll show you how to search for
data within files.
You'll learn how to customize your command
line shell prompt to your liking and
learn how to use aliases.
Finally, on day four, you'll learn
how to transfer data between your
local operating system and a Linux host.
You'll even learn how to copy files
from one Linux system to another.
On the final day you'll learn how to
examine and manipulate processes and jobs.
You'll learn how to automate tasks and
make them recurring events.
We'll talk about how to switch
between users on a Linux system too.
You'll also pick up some tips that will
greatly speed up your work flow at
the command line.
Finally, you'll wrap up the course with
learning how to find, install, update, and
remove software.